The game doesn't have words
I want NPCs
 - NPCs can be pillaged, and items can be taken from them (regular intervals of reward), or you can take the time to be nice and they will do favors and offer items themselves
  (exponential curve of reward)
 - NPCs have a unique name for the player that is built out of symbols (the first 5 actions that the player does to change social ranking is the second emoji used to name the player).
 - NPCs that share your species (human) are randomized.
 - NPCs know eachother and may call each other out by name??
 - You have to make the NPCs crouch in order to give them items.
The game takes inspiration from Starbound, Stardew Valley, and Terraria.
I want a crafting system
Try to have arms point at 45 degree angles when wielding guns, but the bullets fire at any angle.
I want an inventory
I want 2 player capability
I want controller support
I want the game to be placed in the players lap, there are multiple ways to achieve the same effect, so it's up to player to find the best way or the way they prefer.
I want money to be in the game, and it can help you progress somewhat (like in Stardew Valley)
When traveling between realms, you have a chance to discover something or get a temporary effect. These mini games happen while the realm is loading.
Items and physics act different when between realms.
MAYBE the items you collect take up slots in your inventory and you have to organize your own inventory

Starbound:
In the game, you are on the surface of the world, and you mine materials and craft items that help to mine better materials and create better items.
Exploration is rewarded and sometimes required to progress in the story.
There are serious risks
Simple sword designs and orginization
Give player a simple pet (similar to wolf in Minecraft)
Various worlds, but design it like realms.
Combat-Mining-Craft System

Terraria:
You can either progress by overcoming the next challenge or you can play the "chill way" and just develop your character (similar to Minecraft)
You can lose items
When items are made they are assigned an attribute (legendary, speedy, broken) which can modify the stats of the item (-15% damage, +10% knockback)
 - Later in game, the player finds a way to re-craft these items
Unique side quests that can grant interesting items
You can craft simple things (such as torches and rope) and crafting table 1, which is used to make crafting table 2, which allows the player to get a resource that is used to make crafting table 3, which
allows the player to get a resource that is used to make mobile versions of all 3 crafting tables.

Stardew Valley:
There is no tutorial.
Money aids progression
You gain more money over time
